h1. Metafacture Java Examples

This is a minimal Java 8 Maven project with solutions to the exercises from the workshop "Analysis of library metadata with Metafacture":http://swib.org/swib13/slides/boehme_swib13_131.pdf conducted by Christoph Böhme at SWIB13. It can be used as a template for Java projects using Metafacture.

The processing pipelines or workflows are built using the typesafe Metafacture Java API directly, not the Flux DSL.

h1. Setup

Prerequisites: Java 8, Maven 3; verify with @mvn -version@

h2. Maven

Create and change into a folder where you want to store the project:

* @mkdir ~/git ; cd ~/git@

Clone metafacture-java-examples:

* @git clone https://github.com/hbz/metafacture-java-examples.git@

Build metafacture-java-examples:

* @mvn clean verify@

Run a sample with Maven:

* @mvn exec:java -Dexec.classpathScope=test -Dexec.mainClass="samples.Sample1_PrintData"@

Output is written to the individual folders for each sample in @src/test/resources@.

h2. Eclipse

The processing pipelines are written in Java, the actual transformation logic and tests are written in XML. Both can be comfortably edited using Eclipse, which provides content assist (auto-suggest), Maven support, and direct execution of the tests and the transformation.

* Download and run the "Eclipse Java IDE":https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/packages/eclipse-ide-java-developers/lunar (at least version 4.4, Luna), close the welcome screen and import metafacture-core and metafacture-java-examples: 
* @File@ -> @Import...@ -> @Maven@ -> @Existing Maven Projects...@ -> @Next@ -> @Browse...@ -> select @~/git@ -> @Finish@
* Follow the instructions for installing additional plugins and restart Eclipse when it asks you to
* Set up the XML schemas for content assist and documentation while editing metamorph and metamorph-test files:
* @Window@ (on Mac: @Eclipse@) -> @Preferences@ -> @XML@ -> @XML Catalog@
* select @User Specified Entries@ -> @Add...@ -> @Workspace...@ -> @metafacture-core/src/main/resources/schemata/metamorph.xsd@
* repeat previous step for @metamorph-test.xsd@ in the same location

To run a sample in Eclipse, open @metafacture-java-examples/src/test/java/samples@, right click a sample -> 'Run As...' -> 'Java Application'. Output is written to the corresponding folder in @src/test/resources@.